Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on an introduction to algorithm analysis and BINGO.
This lecture we're going to start off with a couple of slides explaining what this lecture and what
this section is about.
And then we'll jump into some life code.
Let's go ahead and get started.
So first off we need to ask ourselves Why analyze algorithms before we do that.
We need to clarify what an algorithm is.
So in this coarsen in general an algorithm is simply a procedure or formula for solving a problem.
So I don't want you to be intimidated by this word algorithm especially in an interview setting.
When someone asks you to come up with an algorithm it's just a procedure or formula for solving the
problem at hand.
Now some problems are famous enough that the algorithms have names as well some procedures mean common
enough such as certain types of sorting where the algorithm associate with it has a name such as immerged
sore or bubble sort.
Etc. and we'll be covering those later on in this course.
But now that we know what an algorithm is we have a good question we need to answer how do we analyze
algorithms and how we can we compare algorithms against each other.
So what I want to do is imagine if you and a friend both came up with two separate functions to sum
the numbers from 0 to end how would you compare the functions and algorithms within the functions.
How would you know which one was better.
How would you even define what better is.
So this chumped to some live code examples to explore this further.
OK we're here at the Jupiter notebook and notice I have the corresponding Jupiter notebook available
here for you in the Jupiter and the viewer.
And this is the example we're going to go through.
Let's go ahead and jump into a live notebook so we can code and I'll just zoom in real quickly so you
can have a better view.
OK.
So let's start off let's say your function looked something like this.
We'll call it someone it takes in an argument.
And we're going to take an input of and return to some of the numbers from 0 to end and you decide to
make an algorithm that looks like this.
You set a variable called final sum instead of equal as zero to start.
Then you say for x in an let's say range and plus 1 you say Final some plus or equal to x and then we
return the final sum.
Now we can also use x range for Python 2 to make that into a generator.
But that's not really the point here.
So feel free to use either.
So you have this let's go ahead and test it out.
Someone of 10 you get 55 up.
So that's 0 plus one plus two three plus four etc. all the way to 10.
So that's your algorithm and your function.
Let's say your friend came up with this we'll call it some to the function and it does the same thing
it takes an input event and returns of some of the numbers from 0 to N but your friend figured this
out.
And times and plus 1 divided by two.
Let's check if this works.
We call the function on 10 and then we get the exact same thing.
So both functions have the same result but completely different algorithms.
You'll note that the first function just literally adds the numbers.
So it's really you're just adding these numbers to your final sum while the second function makes use
of this algorithm and I'm going to jump back to you put another book have it written out here.
So the sum of I equals zero to N is equal to end times and plus 1 divided by 2.
So we want to do is a check to really compare the algorithms so we could compare the amount of space
they take in memory and we can also compare how much time it takes each function to run.
So before we start talking about Big O notation let's just get a general idea of what we're actually
talking about here.
Let's go ahead.
Go ahead and compare how much time it takes these guys to run these two separate functions.
And we're going to do is use some built in magic commands.
In the Jupiter notebook song we use the time it magic command and I will say the first function some
100.
So it looks like it takes about 3.6 to microseconds per loop.
Now check out the other algorithm through time it some to 100.
Right now it's performing the loops.
And let's see.
So don't worry about this right now.
This just means that a result might be being cached.
But what you really want to focus on is that it's taking on the order of nanoseconds per loop so you
can see that the second function is actually much more efficient.
So running at a much faster rate than the first means that the second function or the second algorithm
that the function use some to is a lot more efficient.
But the problem is here we can't just use time to run as an objective measurement because that will
depend on the speed of the computer itself and hardware capabilities.
So we want to use an objective method to compare how much time it takes these guys to run both of these
functions.
But we wanted to be hardware independent so we can't use time.
And that's where Big O notation is going to come in.
So we're going to be able to use this idea of Big O notation to compare algorithms objectively both
in how much time they take to run and how much space they take up in memory.
All right.
So what we discussed in this lecture just to go over it again I'm going to hop over to Jupiter notebook
is just a general idea of why analyze algorithms how to analyze algorithms and start getting a notion
of you're going to have to do this objectively in hardware in the pendant.
So you can't use just time to run.
We'll have these big O notation.
All right.
That's it for this quick introduction in the next lecture we'll dive in more into what Big O notation
actually is.
All right.
Thank you and I'll see you there